[WIP] New docs for Teams-SAMLSSO (#846)
grafana/k6-docs: src/data/markdown/docs/03 cloud/05 Project and Team Management/05 SAML SSO.md

> ⭐️ SAML SSO is available on Enterprise plans.

## What is SAML SSO?

> [SAML SSO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security_Assertion_Markup_Language) allows your company to manage your users through a central Identity Provider (IdP) application (such as [Azure Active Directory](/cloud/project-and-team-management/saml-sso/azure-ad) and [Okta](/cloud/project-and-team-management/saml-sso/okta)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[SAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security_Assertion_Markup_Language) is an open standard to exchange authentication and authorization data. One use of SAML is _single sign-on_ (SSO), which lets an organization manage users through a central Identity Provider (IdP) application (such as [Azure Active Directory](/cloud/project-and-team-management/saml-sso/azure-ad) and [Okta](/cloud/project-and-team-management/saml-sso/okta)).
```

Once set up, new employees just need to be granted access in that application. They will then be able to log into k6 cloud without any additional authentication.

Upon connecting, the user will end up in the correct k6 organization and have access to k6 [Teams](/cloud/project-and-team-management/teams) and [Projects](/cloud/project-and-team-management/projects) based on the Okta/Azure Groups you have assigned them to. Removing them from the IdP means they also completely lose access to k6.

> ## Suggested Identity Providers (IdPs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Suggested identity providers (IdPs)
```

> ⭐️ SAML SSO is available on Enterprise plans.

## What is SAML SSO?

> [SAML SSO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security_Assertion_Markup_Language) is an open standard that allows your company to manage your users through a central Identity Provider (IdP) application (such as [Azure Active Directory](/cloud/project-and-team-management/saml-sso/azure-ad) and [Okta](/cloud/project-and-team-management/saml-sso/okta)).

Author: Fair. Will remove the mention of the standard since we link to Wikipedia on it now instead.

Once set up, new employees just need to be granted access in that application. They will then be able to log into k6 cloud without any additional authentication.

> Upon connecting, the user will end up in the correct k6 organization and have access to k6 [Teams](/cloud/project-and-team-management/teams) and [Projects](/cloud/project-and-team-management/projects) based on the Okta/Azure Groups you have assigned them to. Removing them from the IdP means they also completely lose access to k6.

Author: Hm. Not sure I'd consider this needing a warning per se... it's a feature people will be looking for, and a core reason for using SAML SSO.

> Upon connecting, the user will end up in the correct k6 organization and have access to k6 [Teams](/cloud/project-and-team-management/teams) and [Projects](/cloud/project-and-team-management/projects) based on the Okta/Azure Groups you have assigned them to. Removing them from the IdP means they also completely lose access to k6.

Author: I accepted the change nevertheless, interesting to see how it reads.

## Suggested Identity Providers (IdPs)

- [Okta](https://www.okta.com) 
- [Azure Active Directory](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-au/products/active-directory/) - . Azure is supported, but Azure only pass group IDs and not actual group names to k6 cloud. This means that for anything more advanced, you need to manually create Teams/Projects on the k6 cloud side and then contact us in order to map them to the IDs sent from Azure AD.
- [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) is tested, but not supported, because it can't map [custom attributes](https://community.auth0.com/t/adding-custom-saml-attribute-when-auth0-is-idp/45691) in assertions.

> - Since we support the open The  [SAML 2.0](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SAML_2.0) standard, you can connect k6 Cloud to practically any SAML 2.0 identity provider, not just the ones documented here.

Reviewer 2: Two changes:
```suggestion
- Since we support the open [SAML 2.0](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SAML_2.0) standard, you can connect k6 Cloud to practically any SAML 2.0 identity provider, not just the ones documented here. For further assistance, please contact support.
```

## General setup

> To set up SAML SSO for your organization, you need admin access to your k6 Organization and to the admin panel of the IdP you are using. This is currently a somewhat manual process that involves getting in touch with the k6 customer success team. These are the general steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To set up SAML SSO for your organization, you need admin access to your k6 Organization and to the admin panel of the IdP you are using. This is currently a somewhat manual process that involves getting in touch with the k6 customer success team. These are the general steps:
```

> 1. Choose or create the  `k6 Cloud` SAML SSO application on your IdP of choice (such as Okta or Azure). You will want to organize your users into _Groups_ on the IdP side. [See below](#idp-specific-setups) for the SAMLSSO urls and setup details needed.

Reviewer 2: I think the text needs to be spell-checked to detect these tiny issues, like double spaces and abnormal capitalization.
```suggestion
1. Choose or create the `k6 Cloud` SAML SSO application on your IdP of choice (such as Okta or Azure). You will want to organize your users into _Groups_ on the IdP side. [See below](#idp-specific-setups) for the SAMLSSO urls and setup details needed.
```

2. You need to find the **IdP Metadata URL** for your SAML SSO application. This should be forwarded to the k6 customer success team.
    - In Okta, go to the "Sign on" tab for your IdP application. Use `SAML Signing Certificates->Actions->View IdP metadata` and copy the URL of the page that opens.

>     - In Azure, find the "Single sign-on" menu for your IdP application. Copy the `SAML Certificates->App Federation Metadata Url` field.

Author: While I agree this does depend on a third-party UX that can change (which is the problem of using images), going by my own experience, it would nevertheless have been very useful to have this kind of brief summary available.

> 3. You will get a **token** back from the k6 customer success team. In the SAML SSO application, add a custom _attribute_ `token` and set it to the value of the token you received. [See below](#idp-specific-setups)  for examples.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. You will get a **token** back from the k6 customer success team. In the SAML SSO application, add a custom _attribute_ `token` and set it to the value of the token you received. [See below](#idp-specific-setups) for examples.
```

>
> 💡 __What is SAML SSO provisioning?__
>
> SAML SSO provisioning is the first time a user signs in to k6 Cloud web app via SAML SSO from their IdP dashboard. This process causes the user to be created, joined to its organization and assigned to the default project(s). 

> # IdP-specific setups 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## IdP-specific setups 
```

If you are familiar with SAML SSO, you only need this information to set up your IdP k6 cloud app. You should be able to adopt these examples for other IdPs as well.

> ## Okta 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Okta 
```

| Name ID Format             | EmailAddress                           |
| Response                   | Signed                                 |
| Assertion Signature        | Signed                                 |
| Signature Algorithm        | RSA_SHA256                             |
| Digest Algorithm           | SHA256                                 |
| Assertion Encryption       | Encrypted                              |
| SAML Single Logout         | Disabled                               |
| authnContextClassRef       | PasswordProtectedTransport             |
| Honor Force Authentication | Yes                                    |
| SAML Issuer ID             | http://www.okta.com/${org.externalKey} |

### Attribute Statements

These are required.

| Name            | Name Format | Value              |
| --------------- | ----------- | ------------------ |
| user.email      | Basic       | user.email         |
| user.username   | Basic       | user.login         |
| user.first_name | Basic       | user.firstName     |
| user.last_name  | Basic       | user.lastName      |
| token           | Basic       | `<TOKEN-YOU-GET-FROM-K6-SUPPORT>` |

> ### Group Attribute Statements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Group Attribute Statements
```

Setting Okta up to send Group attributes, allows for more powerful mapping of Okta Groups to k6 cloud Teams/Projects. Whatever you choose to add here, you must communicate it to the k6 customer success team so they can set it the matching mapping on the k6 cloud side.

This example would allow all Okta Groups to be sent. When a user connects, _only_ the Groups they are actually a member of will be sent (k6 ignores the Okta `Everyone` Group). This is the recommended setup for most users.

| Name            | Name Format | Filter - Value  | 
| --------------- | ----------- | --------------- | 
| department      | Basic       | regex - .*      |

(It doesn't matter what the Attribute is named, as long as you tell us what you chose). As an example, if you are a member of three Okta teams, we'd get data on this form sent to us:

    "department": ["Backend", "ProjectX", "Engineering"]

If such teams existed on the k6 side, you'd join them. Otherwise they would be auto-created. Auto-created teams also get a Project with the same name assigned to it. 

> ## Azure Active Directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Azure Active Directory
```

Settings are modified from the `Single sign-on` sidebar menu for your Azure k6 cloud application. You can also check out [setup instructions with images](/cloud/project-and-team-management/saml-sso/azure-ad).

> ### Basic SAML Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Basic SAML Configuration
```

| Attribute   | Value |
| ----------------------------| ----------- |
| Identifier (Entity ID) | https://api.k6.io/sso/acs/ | 
| Reply URL (Assertion Consumer Service URL) | https://api.k6.io/sso/acs/ |
| Sign on URL | _Optional_ | 
| Relay State (Optional) | _Optional_ | 
| Logout Url (Optional) | https://api.k6.io/sso/acs/logout |

> ### Attributes and Claims

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Attributes and Claims
```

These are required.

> | Attribute | Value | 
> | ----------| ------|
> | user.first_name | user.givenname | 
> | user.last_name | user.surname | 
> | user.email | user.userprincipalname | 
> | user.username | user.userprincipalname | 
> | token | `<TOKEN-YOU-GET-FROM-K6-SUPPORT>` | 
> | Unique User Identifier | user.userprincipalname | 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- vale off -->

| Attribute | Value | 
| ----------| ------|
| user.first_name | user.givenname | 
| user.last_name | user.surname | 
| user.email | user.userprincipalname | 
| user.username | user.userprincipalname | 
| token | `<TOKEN-YOU-GET-FROM-K6-SUPPORT>` | 
| Unique User Identifier | user.userprincipalname | 

<!-- vale on -->
```

Reviewer: This escapes the linter

> ### Additional Attributes and Claims 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Additional attributes and claims 
```

| Attribute | Value  | 
| --------- | ------ | 
| department | user.groups | 
  
(It doesn't matter what the Attribute is called, as long as you tell us what you chose). Azure AD sends "Group Object IDs", so if you are a member of three groups, the data k6 receives would look like this: 

    "department": ["6663s5-234f20342-c232ad1-8dwsr2356", 
                   "114fs5-664f20543-b612bd3-s7sr23c88", 
                   "57f6sa-28ab52112-a25sc85-abc2aa223"]

k6 won't know which Azure Group each ID corresponds to. So you need to check the `Users and Groups` for your Azure application and figure out the  `Object Id` for each Group. You then need to send to send the k6 customer support a mapping like this: 
  
| Azure Group Object ID | Team /Project name to use on the k6 side| 
| --------------- | ----------------------------------- | 
| "6663s5-234f20342-c232ad1-8dwsr2356" | "Backend" | 
| "114fs5-664f20543-b612bd3-s7sr23c88" | "Frontend" | 
| "57f6sa-28ab52112-a25sc85-abc2aa223" | "ProjectX" | 

The k6 cloud support team will then map the Group IDs to your Teams on the k6 cloud side.

> ## Assigning default Teams (or projects) to newly provisioned users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Assigning default Teams and Projects to newly provisioned users
```

When new users are provisioned into k6 Cloud, they automatically join your organization and will be assigned the default [Project](/cloud/project-and-team-management/projects/) of your organization. If you have access to  [Teams](/cloud/project-and-team-management/teams/) you will probably want to assign users to teams instead of directly to projects. You can change both in the k6 app settings: `Organization->Settings->SAML SSO` (see steps below).

While teams/projects can be auto-created on-connection (if you arranged for this with the k6 customer success team), they need to already exist for you to assign them in these settings.

> > Note that this feature doesn't work retroactively: Already existing (provisioned) users on k6 Cloud won't be affected by changes made here. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<Blockquote mod="note" title="This feature doesn't work retroactively">

 Changes here do not affect users who already existing (are provisioned) on k6 Cloud. 

</Blockquote>

```

| Default Relay State        | None                                   |
| Name ID Format             | EmailAddress                           |
| Response                   | Signed                                 |
| Assertion Signature        | Signed                                 |
| Signature Algorithm        | RSA_SHA256                             |
| Digest Algorithm           | SHA256                                 |
| Assertion Encryption       | Encrypted                              |
| SAML Single Logout         | Disabled                               |
| authnContextClassRef       | PasswordProtectedTransport             |
| Honor Force Authentication | Yes                                    |
| SAML Issuer ID             | http://www.okta.com/${org.externalKey} |

### Attribute Statements

These are required.

| Name            | Name Format | Value              |
| --------------- | ----------- | ------------------ |
| user.email      | Basic       | user.email         |
| user.username   | Basic       | user.login         |
| user.first_name | Basic       | user.firstName     |
| user.last_name  | Basic       | user.lastName      |

> | token           | Basic       | \<TOKEN-YOU-GET-FROM-K6-SUPPORT\> |

Reviewer 2: The backslashes renders in the output:
```suggestion
| token           | Basic       | <TOKEN-YOU-GET-FROM-K6-SUPPORT> |
```

### Group Attribute Statements

This is optional. If not given, all users will end up starting in the k6 Organization's _default_ Project(s) or Team(s) (configurable from the app, see next section).

> Setting Okta up to send Group attributes, allows for more powerful mapping of Okta Groups to k6 cloud Teams/Projects. Whatever you choose to add here, you must communicate it to the k6 customer success team so they can set it the matching mapping on the k6 cloud side.

Reviewer 2: Should we capitalize `Group` here?

Author: I felt this made it clearer that a Group is a special entity on the IdP side and not just a generic group of people.

This example would allow all Okta Groups to be sent. When a user connects, _only_ the Groups they are actually a member of will be sent (k6 ignores the Okta `Everyone` Group). This is the recommended setup for most users.

| Name            | Name Format | Filter - Value  | 
| --------------- | ----------- | --------------- | 
| department      | Basic       | regex - .*      |

(It doesn't matter what the Attribute is named, as long as you tell us what you chose). As an example, if you are a member of three Okta teams, we'd get data on this form sent to us:

    "department": ["Backend", "ProjectX", "Engineering"]

If such teams existed on the k6 side, you'd join them. Otherwise they would be auto-created. Auto-created teams also get a Project with the same name assigned to it. 

> 

Reviewer 2: Double empty line.

Author: Fixed.

## Azure Active Directory

Settings are modified from the `Single sign-on` sidebar menu for your Azure k6 cloud application. You can also check out [setup instructions with images](/cloud/project-and-team-management/saml-sso/azure-ad).

### Basic SAML Configuration

| Attribute   | Value |
| ----------------------------| ----------- |
| Identifier (Entity ID) | https://api.k6.io/sso/acs/ | 
| Reply URL (Assertion Consumer Service URL) | https://api.k6.io/sso/acs/ |
| Sign on URL | _Optional_ | 
| Relay State (Optional) | _Optional_ | 
| Logout Url (Optional) | https://api.k6.io/sso/acs/logout |

### Attributes and Claims

These are required.

| Attribute | Value | 
| ----------| ------|
| user.first_name | user.givenname | 
| user.last_name | user.surname | 
| user.email | user.userprincipalname | 
| user.username | user.userprincipalname | 

> | token | "\<TOKEN-YOU-GET-FROM-K6-SUPPORT\>" | 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| token | <TOKEN-YOU-GET-FROM-K6-SUPPORT> | 
```

| Unique User Identifier | user.userprincipalname | 

### Additional Attributes and Claims 

This is optional. If not given, all users will end up starting in the k6 Organization's _default_ Project(s) or Team(s) (configurable from the app, see next section).

Setting Azure up to send Group attributes, allows for more powerful mapping of Azure Groups to k6 cloud Teams/Projects. Whatever you choose to add here, you must communicate it to the k6 customer success team so they can set it the matching mapping on the k6 cloud side.

| Attribute | Value  | 
| --------- | ------ | 
| department | user.groups | 
  
(It doesn't matter what the Attribute is called, as long as you tell us what you chose). Azure AD sends "Group Object IDs", so if you are a member of three groups, the data k6 receives would look like this: 

>     "department": ["6663s5-234f20342-c232ad1-8dwsr2356", 
>                                     "114fs5-664f20543-b612bd3-s7sr23c88", 
>                                     "57f6sa-28ab52112-a25sc85-abc2aa223"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "department": ["6663s5-234f20342-c232ad1-8dwsr2356", 
                   "114fs5-664f20543-b612bd3-s7sr23c88", 
                   "57f6sa-28ab52112-a25sc85-abc2aa223"]
```
